docs(tutorial): upgrade pgsql MTA-1278 (#45)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/upgrade-managed-postgresql-database/index.mdx

---

<Message type="important">

PostgreSQL version 9.6 reaches its End of Life (EoL) on November 11, 2021. It is **recommended** to upgrade your PostgreSQL database engine to the latest available version before this date.

</Message>

[PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) is a powerful, open-source object-relational database system with more than 30 years of active development. As major PostgreSQL releases regularly add new features, the layout of the system tables may change. However, the internal data storage format itself rarely changes. This allows you to upgrade a PostgreSQL database system without data loss using the backup and restore functions of the Database API.

In this tutorial, you will learn how to migrate your PostgreSQL databases from version 9.6 to 13. This can be achieved in two ways:

- Manually, using the console and the API. This could be a good option if you only have one database to migrate.
- Automatically, using a bash script based on the Scaleway CLIv2. This could be a good option if you have multiple databases to migrate, and/or are concerned about 
errors during a manual restore.

> ## Manual migration via the Scaleway console and API

Reviewer: Could you add a warning on this method as it will fail if client got extensions installed on its instances. 

We recommand to use the script method or a manual dump/restore for instances with extensions i.e timescaledb, postgis ...

  - database
image: /assets/images/docs/scaleway.png
permalink: docs/how-to-upgrade-managed-database-for-postgresql/
keywords: cloud tutorials, cloud documentations, cloud instance, cloud hosting, server, storage, database, postgresql, sql, database engine, postgre
---

<Message type="important">

PostgreSQL version 9.6 reaches its End of Life (EoL) on November 11, 2021. It is **recommended** to upgrade your PostgreSQL database engine to the latest available version before this date.

</Message>

[PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) is a powerful, open-source object-relational database system with more than 30 years of active development. As major PostgreSQL releases regularly add new features, the layout of the system tables may change. However, the internal data storage format itself rarely changes. This allows you to upgrade a PostgreSQL database system without data loss using the backup and restore functions of the Database API.

In this tutorial, you will learn how to migrate your PostgreSQL databases from version 9.6 to 13. This can be achieved in two ways:

- Manually, using the console and the API. This could be a good option if you only have one database to migrate.

> - Automatically, using a bash script based on the Scaleway CLIv2. This could be a good option if you have multiple databases to migrate, and/or are concerned about 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Automatically, using a bash script based on the Scaleway CLIv2. This could be a good option if you have multiple databases to migrate, and/or are concerned about errors during a manual restore.
```

> errors during a manual restore.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Manual migration via the Scaleway console and API

<Message type="important">

This migration method is not suitable for database instances with extensions installed. In such cases we recommend using the [automatic migration method with our script](#automatic-migration-via-a-bash-script-using-the-scaleway-cli-v2) or doing a manual dump/restore.

</Message>

There are three steps to completing a manual migration: creating a new PostgreSQL 13 instance, backing up your existing database using the Scaleway API, and finally restoring your backup on your new PostgreSQL 13 instance. We walk you through these three steps below.

<Message type="requirement">

- You have an account and are logged into [console.scaleway.com](https://console.scaleway.com)

> - You have generated your [API key](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/generate-api-keys/#-How-to-generate-an-API-Key)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You have generated your [API key](/console/my-project/how-to/generate-api-key/)
```

- You have a PostgreSQL database running on version 9.6
- You have installed `curl` on your local computer

</Message>

### Creating a PostgreSQL 13 Instance

<Message type="note">

This tutorial works with all versions of PostgreSQL. If you prefer another version than PostgreSQL 13, select your preferred version during the Instance creation.

</Message>

1. Open the [Scaleway Console](https://console.scaleway.com) in a web browser and click **Database** in the **Storage** section of the side menu. The list of your databases displays. 

2. Click **+ Create an Instance**. The [Instance creation wizard](https://console.scaleway.com/rdb/instances/create) displays.

> 3. Select **PostgreSQL-13** from the dropdown list and fill in the [required information](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/database-instance/#-Creating-a-Database-Instance) for your new database instance. Then click **Create an Instance**. Your database is created and you are redirected to the database dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Select **PostgreSQL-13** from the dropdown list and fill in the [required information](/storage/database/how-to/create-a-database/) for your new database instance. Then click **Create an Instance**. Your database is created and you are redirected to the database dashboard.
```

    <Message type="note">

    Ensure your new Database Instance is located in the same geographical region as your old one.

    </Message> 

4. Click the **Users** tab and replicate the users of your existing Database Instance.

### Backing up your existing database using the Scaleway API

> <Message type="note">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Message type="requirements">
```

> You must have [installed `curl`](https://curl.se/) on your local computer, and [generated your API key](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/generate-api-keys/#-How-to-generate-an-API-Key) before proceeding with the following steps. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You have generated your [API key](/console/my-project/how-to/generate-api-key/)
- You have installed `curl` on your local computer
```

</Message>

1. Retrieve the database ID of your **old** Database Instance. You can find it on the **Database Instance Information** page of your Instance: 

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-database-information.png" alt="" />

2. Make a backup of your logical database(s) using the API: 

    ```sh
    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: $SECRET_KEY" https://api.scaleway.com/rdb/v1/<region>/fr-par/backups -d '{
    "instance_id": "<database_instance_id>",
    "database_name": "<my_database>",
    "name": "<backup_name>",
    "expires_at": "<expiry_date>"
    }'
    ```

3. Replace the following information in the command above: 

>     * `$SECRET_KEY`: Your Scaleway API [secret key](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/generate-api-keys/#-How-to-generate-an-API-Key)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * `$SECRET_KEY`: Your Scaleway API [secret key](/console/my-account/concepts#secret-key)
```

        "instance_name": "rdb-nostalgic-dubinsky",
        "name": "customer_data_backup",
        "region": "fr-par",
        "size": null,
        "status": "creating",
        "updated_at": null
    }
    ```
    <Message type="note">

    If you want to migrate several logical databases, repeat the command above for each of them. 

    </Message> 

### Restoring your backup on your new Database Instance

<Message type="important">

Ensure that you have replicated your database users and permissions on your new Instance before continuing with the following steps. 

</Message>

1. Retrieve the database ID of your **new** Database Instance. You can find it on the **Database Instance Information** page of your Instance.

2. Restore the backup of your logical database(s) using the API: 

    ```sh
    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: $SECRET_KEY" https://api.scaleway.com/rdb/v1/regions/<region>/backups/<backup_id>/restore -d '{
    "database_name": "<my_database>",
    "instance_id": "<new_database_instance_id>"
    }'
    ```
    Replace the following information in the command above: 

>     * `$SECRET_KEY`: Your Scaleway API [secret key](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/generate-api-keys/#-How-to-generate-an-API-Key)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * `$SECRET_KEY`: Your Scaleway API [secret key](/console/my-account/concepts#secret-key)
```

    * `<region>`: The region of your Database Instance. It can either be `fr-par`, `nl-ams`, or `pl-waw`.
    * `<backup_id>`: The ID of your database backup, for example: `7feaab67-0f22-4170-96cc-6fbb11c57256`.
    * `<my_database>`: The name of your PostgreSQL database, for example: `customer_data`.
    * `<database_instance_id>`: The ID of your **new** Database Instance, for example: `d401ff10-350d-4707-9571-c861677f0031`.

>     You will receive a [JSON formatted](https://www.json.org/json-en.html) output with information about the backup. You notice the **status** as `restoring`.: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You will receive a [JSON formatted](https://www.json.org/json-en.html) output with information about the backup. The **status** should be `restoring`: 
```

    ```json
    {
        "created_at": "2021-06-24T12:07:17.368668Z",
        "database_name": "dvdrental",
        "download_url": "null",
        "expires_at": "2021-06-26T13:00:00Z",
        "id": "7feaab67-0f22-4170-96cc-6fbb11c57256",
        "instance_id": "ad085d32-16e0-4ce6-862c-8e70c56b9ee7",
        "instance_name": "rdb-nostalgic-dubinsky",
        "name": "customer_data_backup",
        "region": "fr-par",
        "size": 661389,
        "status": "restoring",
        "updated_at": "2021-06-24T12:07:21.775783Z"
    }
    ```

    If you want to restore several logical databases, repeat the command above for each of them.

    <Message type="note">

>     Depending on the size of your backup, the restoring it might take a moment. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Depending on the size of your backup, restoring might take a moment. 
```

    </Message>

3. The database appears in the **Database** tab of your new Database Instance, once the backup has been imported: 

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-database-restored.png" alt="" />

    <Message type="tip">

>     Optionally, you can verify the status of your database with a tool like [pgAdmin 4](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/manage-database-instances-with-pgadmin-4/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Optionally, you can verify the status of your database with a tool like [pgAdmin 4](/tutorials/manage-database-instance-pgadmin4/)
```

    </Message>

4. Update your applications with the endpoint (IP address and port) of the new Database Instance.

> 5. Once the migration is complete, [delete](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/database-instance/#-Deleting-the-Database-Instance) the old Database Instance from your account. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Once the migration is complete, [delete](/storage/database/how-to/delete-a-database/) the old Database Instance from your account. 
```

                        exit 1;
                    else
                        log_warn "Database $db already exists, it won't be recreated"
                    fi;
                fi;
            fi;

            log_info "Set ALL privilege on $db to $MIGRATION_USER"
            run_rdb_cli privilege set instance-id="$new_instance" database-name="$db" user-name=$MIGRATION_USER permission=all > /dev/null

            # Dump and restore the database from old_instance to new instance
            old_instance_connstring=$(get_conn_string "$old_instance")
            new_instance_connstring=$(get_conn_string "$new_instance")

            log_info "Dump and restore database $db"
            log_debug "pg_dump $old_instance_connstring -Fc --create $db | pg_restore $new_instance_connstring --dbname $db --no-privileges --no-owner"
            PGPASSWORD=$MIGRATION_USER_PASSWORD pg_dump $old_instance_connstring -Fc --create "$db" | PGPASSWORD=$MIGRATION_USER_PASSWORD  pg_restore $new_instance_connstring --dbname "$db" --no-privileges --no-owner
            log_info "Database $db migrated to $new_instance"
        done;
    ```

> 2. Make the script executable using the chmod command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Make the script executable using the `chmod` command:
```
